Howdy, Riff founders. Do you feel like
your skill level in Riftbound is not
quite where you want it to be? Well, I'm
going to give you some information and
pathways to fix that. If you are brand
new to Riftbound, like brand brand new,
you should be spending time at your LGS
playing Nexus Knights and doing random Q
on TCG Arena. You should have a concrete
base level understanding of the game and
general rules information before you ask
some of the questions answered in the
video today. I have a lot of people
message me asking for help. And after
some discussion, it's clear they just
haven't played enough of the game. A lot
of the skills talked about today come
from just playing, like expecting
certain things to happen at certain
points, battlefield rotation, threat
ranges, and so on. Those things come
from just having game time. There's an
old saying for Dota 2. It takes a
thousand hours for you to even figure
out how to work the map. That said, to
anyone still here, let's get better.
Battlefields. Battlefield order is
critical. You need to understand what
battlefields DDP presented when and in
what matchups. The most common one I see
people mess up is in the Draven mirror.
You need to be keeping reavers row for
when you go first. The power you get
from going first with reavers cannot be
understated. And Ireelia should
generally be blind obelisk in nearly all
games except for the mirror. If you win
the role, you can go sneaky deck hand
first or worst case stack deck into G.
If you go second, you can go Stellicorn
Herder immediately, which is absolutely
gross, nearly unusable in Aurelia. Next,
understanding what battlefields your
opponent could and should be presenting
is also important. Like most Ezreal and
Kaisa players will be on voidgate blind,
most Draven players will be on Reavers
blind, uh, and Fiora players are on
Monastery of Herana blind, etc. When you
understand how certain matchups operate,
you can do battlefield shenanigans to
gain equity in certain matchups and
throw your opponents off, too. A common
one I really like doing is when playing
the Draven mirror while I'm on miracle
and they're on mid-range, I like to play
Obelisk on my going first game because I
can match their oblisk, play Draven, and
also side out my two drops for better
cards. Beyond that, reducing surprises
and variability in those matchups will
increase your win rate over the long
haul. Value. Taking extra value when
given to you and giving away value when
you don't need to can win and lose you
games. An example you will probably see
all the time against Draven is they will
often push in their turn one two drop
into a battlefield, play Draven in the
back, leave the two drop in the said
battlefield with no card hidden and no
runes untapped. This will often result
in the opponent coming in with their two
drop, potentially committing a card to
kill it, then playing another unit,
often tapping out to reinforce it. Most
of the time this is just actually
factually wrong. Draven is going to be
six might and the deck has a slew of
positive interaction to win this combat.
Take the point back, draw a card and get
a gold. What if they hide a card? No
worries. They spent a power and stocked
up on a battlefield all for a two drop.
You can go into the other battlefield
and safely develop units in the back and
retake it the next turn while
maintaining even points and point tempo.
they are playing it in a way that the
Draven player is scripting them to and
extracting value even if it's not
immediate. Once again, it's all nuanced
and is very matchup and Battlefield
specific, but this is a common example.
Another one I see less experienced
players do often against Draven and
Ezreal specifically is engage in
unfavorable combat too early. Oftent
times against these decks, you just
literally do not go into the
battlefields for the first few turns.
You can let them have a few points.
Oftentimes, Ezreal won't even take the
points, but turning on Vex and turning
on the Draven Legend can lose you the
game very quickly.
Now, that doesn't mean you let them get
six free uninterrupted points with no
game plan. But you also need to keep in
mind, can I deal with generic unit plus
interaction Draven push favorably? Or
can I deal with Vex, move in, play
called Shots for free, and then nuke my
whole board for three farts and a blue
[__] power? Sometimes the answer is
yes. Sometimes the answer is no. But you
should always ask it and base your
decisions off of those inflections. The
first thing people notice when taking
the quote unquote next step in TCGs is
that they suck pretty badly at deck
building. It's nothing to be ashamed of.
You'll often find some of the top
players in any given game are genuinely
just not deck builders. And you'll find
some deck builders who don't have the
same results as top players. I genuinely
suggest you find a top deck list for a
deck you like or want to play. Copy it
exactly and don't change it until you
can reasonably articulate why beyond
just I don't like this card or I like X
better. This is the biggest mistake I
see a lot of players do. And you can
even go see it for yourself in real
time. Go to the Riftbound community
discord. Go to one of the random deck
building channels and the first thing
you see after a major event is random
people asking a player who topped with
that deck what would you change? Don't
change anything, dude. The deck just
topped. Play the list as it sits. Once
you understand what your deck is trying
to accomplish, when, why, and how, what
it loses to, the inflection points, and
how it tends to play given certain
hands, that is when you can make
educated changes to the list.
Understanding deck building is also
important because it allows you to
understand things your opponent is
representing. Top level players will
generally know 35 or more cards in an
opponent's deck because the best lists
become standardized. This is also a
benefit to you because you can play tech
cards and things that might be less
expected to provide an element of
surprise against opponents which can win
games. Playing for the rest of the game,
not just this turn. This is a mistake I
see newer players make all of the time.
You must play with all of the
information you've received from the
rest of the game or match combined, not
just what you see this turn. A very easy
example I can give of is let's say
you're playing Ezreal, right? Your
opponent is a Draven player. This is the
current board state. You have seven
runes untapped. Your opponent has four
tapped, two untapped with some amount of
cards in the hand. You have singularity
stupify in hand. Are you playing
singularity? Put your answers in the
comment section below.
You got me. This is a trick question.
The correct answer is C. What is the
rest of the info? You know what game is
this? Game two and three. Draven is on a
higher hard bargain count. What turn is
this? And what is the rest of the board
state? You saw seven and six runes, so
you assumed it was turn three. If it's
game one, have any hard bargains been
played? Uh, you must know what's in the
graveyard to know this. What are the
rest of the cards in the Ezreal player's
hand? Do we have a better play? Is this
our only play? What can we play through?
You know, spinning axe, hard bargain, so
on so forth. These are all questions top
players ask themselves during the game
while going through the decision-making
process. Now, this probably seems like a
lot, and it is until it becomes nearly
automatic, but most of these things
become autonomous and subconscious when
you've put enough time into the game,
which segus me into our next part,
preparation. I wrote what I think is a
pretty good article on this on Twitter.
You can check it out linked in the
description below. Tournament
preparation is key to success. Having a
plan that remains functional across long
rounds and diverse matchups is critical.
Spending your time testing in the wrong
place is the biggest prep mistake you
could probably make. Grinding random
games creates familiarity, not
readiness. Uh, a highle testing should
be deliberately structured. You know,
define what you're trying to learn.
Document outcomes in terms of decision
points, not vibes. Identify the turns
where the matchup pivots, the resources
or game states that predict wins and
losses, and which sideboard changes uh
provide you equity rather than feel
good.
You want repeatability and sequencing
you can execute under fatigue and that
doesn't require perfect draws. You also
need to understand tempo when it flips
and how to retake it effectively.
Tempo. What even is tempo? Most players
generally don't understand what tempo
really means, but rather core pieces of
it. Tempo is a combination term that
combines attributes such as pace in
which you're playing threats, favorable
control over the pace of the game as a
whole, number of game actions available
to you, and general combined advantage,
whether it be rune, card, unit, or
point. It originates as a music term,
also commonly known as a chess term,
which means speed and rhythm, which
pretty well defines what it means in
card games as well. Nearly all decks in
Riftbound in some fashion will look to
stabilize and regain or hold tempo.
Aggro looks to take it immediately
through gaining points quick and forcing
you to go into combat potentially
quicker than you might have originally
planned. Control does it through just
killing all your guys and winning
through attrition. Combo does it through
hitting their wombo combo and doing
whatever thing their deck aims to do.
usually wiping out your board, scoring a
couple points, drawing a bunch of cards,
and setting up for a rebuttal to any
crackback you could possibly have.
Mid-range, which is what a lot of decks
in Riftbound are, does it by looking to
maintain a consistent tempo throughout
the whole game. You'll notice that most
mid-range decks never tend to have a oh
my god, that turn was insane turn, but
they maintain a constant develop a dude
or two, play a good spell or two, every
turn game plan.
VOD reviews and playing against better
players. This is a literal cheat code. I
got the top 0.01% in Dota 2, Global
Elite in CS GO and Immortal 2 and
Valerant off of VOD reviews and playing
with and against people who were better
than me. Go on TCG Arena, play some
matches and record them, win or lose.
Then go back and watch them. And at each
decision point, pause and think through
the options. Mulligan, every draw, every
combat, every card your opponent plays.
You will very quickly find sub-optimal
lines you're taking, incorrect decisions
you've made, and maybe some bad play
patterns. You can also watch higher
level players do VOD reviews. Challenger
TCG's Discord does weekly VOD reviews.
Allen ZQ posts VOD reviews of recorded
matches publicly on his YouTube. And the
Mansh did a very good review of the
Vegas finals in his channel. All of the
best players VOD review, I promise you.
It's also mostly free. Everyone likes
free. As soon as you start being able to
identify the exact turn you lose the
game, you know you are getting better.
In most games of Riftbound, the game is
determined long before it's actually
lost. You should be able to identify
those turns in your games or even in the
games of others. Ask for help. Don't
feel ashamed to ask for help or even pay
for help. We live in the age of
information and collaboration. Most top
level players are extremely passionate
about this game and would absolutely
love to talk to you in their communities
about the game. There's a whole meme
about paying people to teach you how to
play a card game, which is just people
being weird on the internet. Nothing
new. The people who are best at
everything have coaches or teams they
work with, pro sports players, pro poker
players, hell, even executives for
Fortune 500 companies. And all of these
coaches are compensated for their time
and expertise have people they pay to
make them better at what they're doing.
You could spend a few bucks on a guide
or access to a Discord and get access to
information that was gathered and
provided by a person or people with
thousands or even tens of thousands of
hours playing card games at the highest
level. If you think it will be
beneficial, do it. Lastly, have fun. The
process of getting better should be
rewarding, not stressful. You know, be
mindful, play with intention, but also
have fun. In the comments, put what
helped you get better at Riftbound. What
did you struggle with the most? I'd love
to hear from you guys. Be sure to like,
comment, subscribe, do the things, and
I'll see you in the next one.